In the last video,
we talked about the programming model for
Spark where RDD's get generated from
external datasets and gets partitioned.
We said, RDDs are immutable meaning they
can't be changed in place even partially.
They need a transformation
operation applied to them and
get converted into a new RDD.
This is essential for keeping track
of all the processing that has been
applied to our dataset providing the
ability to keep a linear chain of RDDs.
In addition, as a part of a big data
pipeline, we start with an RDD.
And through several transformation steps,
many other RDDs as
intermediate products get executed
until we get to our final result.
We also mention that
an important feature of Spark
is that all these transformation are lazy.
This means they don't execute
immediately when applied to an RDD.
So when we apply a transformation,
nothing happens right away.
We are basically preparing our big
data pipeline to be executed later.
When we are done defining all
the transformations and perform an action,
Spark will take care of finding the best
way to execute this computation and
then start all the necessary
tasks in our worker nodes.
In this video, we will explain some
common transformation in Spark.
After this video, you will be able
to explain the difference between
a narrow transformation and
wide transformation.
Describe map, flatmap,
filter and coalesce as narrow
transformations and
list two wide transformations.
Let's take at look at, probably the
simplest transformation, which is a map.
By now,
you're well versed in home networks.
It applies the function to each
partition or element of an RDD.
This is a one to one transformation.
It is also in the category of element-wise
transformations since it transforms
every element of an RDD separately.
The code example in the blue
box here applies a function
called lower to all
the elements in a text_RDD.
The lower function
turns all the characters in
a line to lower case letters.
So the input is one line
of text with any kind of
capitalization and the outfit is going
to be the same line, all lower case.
In this example, we have two worker
nodes drawn as orange boxes.
The black boxes are partitions
of our dataset.
We work by partition and not by element.
As you would remember this, it is the
difference between Spark and MapReduce.
The partition is just a chunk of our data
with some number of elements in it and
the map function gets applied to all
elements in that partition in each
worker node locally.
Each node applies the map
function to the data or
RDD partition they received independently.
Let's look at a few more in
element-wise transformation category.
FlatMap is very similar to map.
However, instead of returning
an individual element for each map,
it returns an RDD with an aggregate of
all the results for all the elements.
In the example in the blue box,
the split_words fuction
takes a line as an input,
which is one element and it's output
is each word as a single element.
So, it splits a line to words.
The same thing gets done for each line.
When the output for
all the lines is flattened,
we get a simple
one-dimensional list of words.
So, we'll get all the words in
all the lines in just one list.
Depending on the line length the output
partitions might be of different sizes.
Detected here by the height of
each black box being different.
In Spark terms, map and
flatMap are narrow transformations.
Narrow transformation refers to
the processing where the processing
logic depends only on data that is
already residing in the partition and
data shuffling is not necessary.
Another very important
transformation is filter.
Often, we're interested just
in a subset of our data or
we want to get rid of bad data.
Filter transformation takes the function
take executes on each element
of a RDD partition and
returns only the elements that
the transformation element returns true.
The example code in the blue box here,
applies a filter
function that filters out words
that start with the letter a.
The function starts with a,
takes the input word,
then transforms it to lowercase and
then checks if the word starts with a.
So, the output of this operation will be
a list with only words that start with a.
This is another narrow transformation.
So, it only gets executed locally
without the need to shuffle any RDD
partitions across the word kernels.
The output of filter depends on
the input and the filter functions.
In some cases,
even if you started with even RDD
partitions within the worker nodes,
the RDD size can significantly vary across
the workers after a filter operation,
then this happens is a pretty good
idea to join some of those partitions
to increase performance and
even out processing across clusters.
This transformation is called coalesce.
Coalesce simply helps with balancing
the data partition numbers and sizes.
When you have significantly reduced
your initial data after some filters and
other transformations,
having a large number of partitions
might not be very useful anymore.
In this case,
you can use coalesce to reduce the number
of partitions to a more manageable number.
Until now, we talked about narrow
transformations that happen in a worker
node locally without having to
transfer data through the network.
Now, let's start talking
about wide transformations.
Let's remember our Word Count example.
As a part of the Word Count example, we
map the words RDD could generate tuples.
The output of map is a key value pair
list where the key is the word and
the value is always one.
We then apply it reduceByKey
to tuples to generate counts,
which simply sums the values for
each key or word.
Let's imagine for a second that we use
groupByKey instead of reduceByKey.
We will come back to reduceByKey
in just a little bit.
Remember, mapped outputs tuples,
which is a list of key value
pairs in the forms of word one.
At each worker node, we will have
tuples that have the same word as key.
In this example, apple as the key and
1 as the count and 2 worker nodes.
Trying to group together, all the counts
of a word across worker nodes
requires shuffling of
data between these nodes.
Just like we do for the word apple here.
GroupByKey is the transformation
that helps us combine values with
the same key into a list without applying
a special user define function to it.
As you see on the right, the result
of a groupByKey transformation on all
the map outputs by the word apple is
the key ends up in a list with all ones.
If you instead apply the function to
list like summing up all the values,
then we could have had
the word count results.
In this case, 2.
If we instead applied a function to
the list like summing up all the values,
then we would have had
the word count results.
If we need to apply such functions to
a group of values related to a key like
this, we use the reduceByKey operation.
ReduceByKey helps us to combine
the value using a reduce function,
which in the word count
case is a simple summation.
In groupByKey and
reduceByKey transformations,
we observe the behavior that require
shuffling of the data across work nodes,
we call such transformations
wide transformations.
In wide transformation operations,
processing depends on data
residing in multiple partitions
distributed across worker nodes and this
requires data shuffling over the network
to bring related datasets together.
As a summary, we have listed a small
number of transformations in Spark with
some examples and distinguished between
them as narrow and wide transformations.
Although this is a good start,
I advise you to go through the list
provided at the link shown here after
you complete this beginner course.
Read about the rest of the transformations
in Spark before you start programming in
Spark and have fun with transformations.